8-10 slices of white or brown bread or whole wheat bread or sandwich bread
1 medium potato, boiled and sliced into rounds
1 small to medium cucumber thinly sliced
1 small onion thinly sliced
1 small to medium tomato, thinly sliced
butter as required
chaat masala powder as required
roasted cumin powder as required
black salt or regular salt as required
freshly milled black pepper – optional
tomato ketchup or sauce to be served with the sandwiches
for the coriander/cilantro chutney:
1 cup chopped fresh coriander leaves/cilantro
1-2 garlic cloves, chopped
1 green chili, chopped
½ to ¾ tsp lemon juice or as required
½ tsp cumin powder
black salt or rock salt or sea salt as required
how to make the recipe:
making the coriander/cilantro chutney
in a grinder or blender grind all the above chutney ingredients to a smooth paste using very little water. keep the chutney aside. if there are leftovers, then keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
preparing the grill veg sandwich:
boil the potatoes. they should not be cooked too much or fall apart. just cooked well till soft. peel and slice them.
rinse, peel and slice the onion, tomatoes and cucumber in thin rounds.
butter all the bread slices. the butter has to be spread evenly and generously so that the bread does not become soggy on spreading the chutney. spread some green chutney on the slices.
place a few slices of potatoes and then sprinkle with roasted cumin powder and chaat masala powder.
then place 2 to 3 cucumber, tomato and onion slices. sprinkle roasted cumin powder, chaat masala powder and black salt.
cover the sandwiches with the remaining slices of bread.
spread butter on the top of slices.
in a pre heated grill, place the sandwich carefully with the buttered side facing at the bottom. be careful when doing this. now spread butter on the top side facing you.
close the grill and grill the sandwiches for 2-3 minutes or till crisp and golden.
remove the grilled sandwiches with a wooden spatula. in batches grill the next lot.
serve the vegetable grill sandwich hot with tomato ketchup and coriander/cilantro chutney or any other green chutney of your choice